If you work in IT, computer programming
skills open up an incredible amount of
opportunity. Being able to write
scripts and programs that tell your
computer to perform a task equips you
with an invaluable tool.
Not only does it make your work easier
and more efficient, it can help you grow
faster and advance further in your IT
career.
But how do you even start to learn a
programming language like Python?
How do you recognize when to tell a
computer to perform a task?
And how do you then write a program to
actually get your computer to complete
the task you want it to do?
The thought of learning to write a
program in Python can make you feel a
whole bunch of emotions, excitement,
anticipation, that feeling of wanting to
dive right in and get going and also
fear.
You might ask yourself, can I really
learn how to code or do I have it in me?
I'm here to tell you, yes, you can
absolutely do this.
Learning how to program can be scary
and intimidating, but at the same time
it's really fun and really exciting.
In coding as in life, if we're going to
get philosophical, the most rewarding
work is usually a bit challenging, but
ultimately well worth the effort.
Of course, I'm able to say all this
from experience, especially the cheesy
parts. My name is Christine Rafla.
I'm a systems administrator at Google
and I'm going to be your instructor and
guide in this course.
The role of a sysadmin can vary a lot
from company to company and even within
different teams in the same company.
I happen to work in the corporate
identity and access management
operations team, which is a really long
way of saying that we make sure that
everyone is represented correctly and
if they need to access certain
resources, they can.
What I love the most about being a
sysadmin is that the role has so many
diverse functions.
We handle loads of unique problems and
edge cases from tinkering with different
systems to collaborating with other
teams.
I am always learning something new, so
it's really hard to get bored.
It all starts with knowing how to
automate, if you're an IT support
specialist, a systems administrator, or
in a role somewhere in between knowing
how to get computers to do the hard
work for you will set you apart from
others in similar IT roles and make
your life much easier.
Think about it, would you rather
manually deploy 100 computers on your
own or tell your computer to do it all
for you all at once?
No-brainer, right, having a coding
skill set can help you grow into more
specialized roles like a systems
administrator, Cloud Solutions engineer,
DevOps specialist, site reliability
engineer, or who knows maybe even web
developer or data analyst.
The point is, being able to write a
program is an essential tool in your IT
toolkit and more and more employers are
looking for these skills in the people
they hire. If you've ever learned a new
skill, like playing a musical
instrument, speaking a foreign
language, knitting, or skateboarding.
You know that getting good at something
new requires a lot of practice.
For me, I love to learn new languages
and I'm proud to say I speak Spanish,
Arabic, French, and I even know ten
words in Russian.
Our world is shaped by the words and
the languages we speak and while some
words may be unique to one language you
can always find similarities that help
you learn and understand.
Being able to connect the dots between
cultures allows me to see things others
might not, kind of sounds like this
applies to IT programming, huh?
My point is, whether you're learning
French or Python, it's never easy.
You have to start small, learn the
basics and practice those until you
master them. Only then can you move on
to more complex and impressive stuff and
I'm here to help you along that path
along with my colleagues who you'll meet
in later courses. We'll start slow,
master the foundations together and
you'll soon be ready for more
challenging stuff.
So are you wondering why we filmed this
course in a cabin on a lake in Canada?
The truth is we're actually in a game
room at one of the Google offices in
Sunnyvale, California.
We chose a different themed office
space for each course of the program
just to mix things up and I think I
scored with this one.
I should warn my manager that I'll be
hanging out in this one well after the
course ends because it's super comfy.
By the end of this course, you'll
understand the benefits of programming
in IT roles. You'll be able to write
simple programs using Python, figure out
how the building blocks of programming
fit together, and combine all this
knowledge to solve a complex
programming problem.
That's right, by the end of this
course, you're going to write a program
in Python that's designed to solve a
real-world IT problem, super exciting
right? We'll start off by diving into
the basics of writing a computer
program. You'll get hands-on experience
with programming concepts through
interactive exercises and real-world
examples.
You'll quickly start to see how
computers can perform a multitude of
tasks. You just have to write code that
tells them what to do.
Along the way, we'll be talking about
automation, which is the process of
getting computers to automatically do a
task that us humans normally have to do
by hand. Now, some of the stuff can get
a little complex and confusing.
I promise to do my best to make these
lessons clear and easy to understand,
but if you get stuck at any point,
please feel free to re-watch the videos.
Practice as much as you like and take
the time you really need to understand
these topics. The goal of this course
isn't to teach you everything there is
to know about software engineering
because yikes, that would be a long
course. Instead, we're going to
introduce you to some of the key
concepts of programming and scripting
that will empower you to spot
opportunities for automation in real
life.
You're about to learn a skill that can
help you take your career to whole new
levels. Are you excited?
I'm excited, so let's jump in!